stepping on to a major universities
campus right out of high school might be
daunting for some incoming freshmen but
i'll burn university is making the
transition easier with its learning
communities a learning community in
auburn is an opportunity for an incoming
freshman to be a part of a smaller group
in auburn it's either based on an
academic college or theme that they have
an interest in and what the students
will do together is they'll take three
classes together some of them will also
live together in the same residence hall
so it gives a student the chance to make
that transition to a large University a
little bit easier and really quickly get
to know some other students on campus
each community is made up of 20 to 30
students Amy hood says the closeness
helped her adjust to the academic rigors
of college life I definitely still keep
up with people in the learning community
I'm still really good friends with one
of them the girls and a lot of them are
in my class this year so I like see a
familiar face and we can go ahead and
study again since we ready now to their
study habits and because of that
experience she is passing along her
knowledge by helping in the program I
came from out of state said didn't know
anyone and so already knowing 25 people
when I walked into a large lecture class
was just awesome and so I just felt that
it was so beneficial to me that I really
wanted to give back to it and get make
sure that other students like knew about
it and got involved and it just kind of
kind of spiraled from there some
learning communities are based only in
the classroom while some keep the
experiences alive back in the residence
halls the program has become so
successful more students are taking
advantage of it every year we have four
hundred and ten seats we filled ninety
two percent of those that we have about
three hundred and sixty seven students
which were so excited about because back
when the program started in 1999 we had
50 available spots for students so we
have grown just enormously and we're
even looking to add more for next year
as we continue to grow catia iron says
she's glad she joined not just because
of the academic benefits but the
friendship she's making we have a close
bond because most of us are doing wild
life sciences some are doing forestry
and one person is doing marine biology
and
all involved with the Raptor Center
which is something that we all get
together and do one of the volunteer
services and then one girl Lindsay and I
we both volunteer at deer pins and so
that's the way that we help because she
does it saturday i do it sunday so we
can easily call each other and we can
like switch days if we need to but it's
just something that helps to bring us
closer together because we have more
shared experiences and so it's a
friendship that will probably continue
along as we go through college former
learning community students say when you
combine the social and academic aspects
of the program you become a better
rounded person I guess I'm kind of
pulling from things I've learned in
class like learning does occur outside
of the classroom in order to actually
feel welcome on campus and get
acclimated with on the University you
have to be involved be sociable get to
know people and through those networks I
mean it actually helps not academically
because those students get to know each
other through their study groups they
get to you know enhance their grades and
to just grow as people and to grow as
Arbor men and women